Add back up and recover documentation in the sensuctl category (#2678)
sensu/sensu-docs: content/sensu-go/6.0/sensuctl/back-up-recover.md

---
title: "Back up and recover resources with sensuctl"
linkTitle: "Back Up and Recover Resources"
description: "Use the sensuctl command line tool to back up and recover your Sensu resources. Read this page to learn how to use sensuctl dump commands for backup and recovery."
weight: 20
version: "6.0"
product: "Sensu Go"
platformContent: false 
menu:
  sensu-go-6.0:
    parent: sensuctl
---

The `sensuctl dump` command allows you to export your resources to standard out (STDOUT) or to a file.
You can export all of your resources or a subset of them based on a list of resource types.
The `dump` command supports exporting in `wrapped-json` and `yaml`.

{{% notice note %}}
**NOTE**: Passwords are not included when exporting users.

> You must add the `password` attribute to any exported user resources before you can use them with `sensuctl create`.

Reviewer: We could also mention `password_hash` as an alternative to `password` (one or the other is required) link to https://docs.sensu.io/sensu-go/latest/sensuctl/#generate-a-password-hash and we need some additional text to explain how this output is used to set the password_hash for a user resource.

Author: I copied the note from later in the recover instructions with slight modifications.

{{% /notice %}}

For example, to export all resources to a file named `my-resources.yaml` in `yaml` format:

{{< code shell >}}
sensuctl dump all --format yaml --file my-resources.yaml
{{< /code >}}

To export only checks to STDOUT in `yaml` format:

{{< code shell >}}
sensuctl dump check --format yaml
{{< /code >}}

To export only handlers and filters to a file named `my-handlers-and-filters.yaml` in `yaml` format:

{{< code shell >}}
sensuctl dump handler,filter --format yaml --file my-handlers-and-filters.yaml
{{< /code >}}

## Back up your resources

Use `sensuctl dump` to back up your Sensu resources so you can [restore][3] them later with [`sensuctl create`][1].
For example, we recommend creating a backup before you [upgrade][4] to a new version of Sensu.

{{% notice note %}}

> **NOTE**: You cannot export `secrets/v1.provider` resources &mdash; make sure to omit them from your `sensuctl dump` commands.

Reviewer: I can't reproduce the issue described in https://github.com/sensu/sensu-enterprise-go/issues/1193 anymore, so we should remove this note for now.

{{% /notice %}}

Here's the step-by-step process:

1. Create a backup folder.

   {{< code shell >}}
mkdir backup
{{< /code >}}
   

> 2. Back up your pipeline resources, stripping namespaces to maintain portability and facilitate reuse.

Reviewer: I think item 2 is a helpful suggestion, but if we want to have an opinionated backup/restore process that is focused on the "backup before you upgrade" story, I would leave item 2 out.

Reviewer: reference https://docs.sensu.io/sensu-go/latest/sensuctl/create-manage-resources/#create-resources-across-namespaces when talking about this approach for using an existing namespace to populate new namespaces

   
   {{< code shell >}}
sensuctl dump assets,checks,hooks,filters,mutators,handlers,silenced,secrets/v1.Secret \
--format yaml | grep -v "^\s*namespace:" > backup/pipelines.yaml
{{< /code >}}
   

> 3. Create a namespaced backup of the entire cluster (except entities, events, and apikeys).

Reviewer: If we omit entities, that could mean some number of proxy entities would be left out, could lead to proxy check requests not being scheduled.

Reviewer: if we are omitting apikeys because we want RBAC to be split out (see item 4) then we would also want to omit all the types explicitly dumped in item 4.

   
   {{< code shell >}}
sensuctl dump all \
--omit entities,events,apikeys \
--format yaml > backup/config.yaml
{{< /code >}}

>    

Author: Need to align with Cameron's note in https://github.com/sensu/sensu-docs/issues/2382#issuecomment-668149461

```
core/v2.APIKey resources should be omitted
they can't be recreated from a dumped record
```

4. Back up your [role-based access control (RBAC)][2] resources.
   
   {{< code shell >}}

> sensuctl dump apikeys,users,roles,rolebindings,clusterroles,clusterrolebindings

Reviewer: apikeys and users should be dumped separately, e.g. `cantrestoreme.yml` 😉  and we can move the note from below about user passwords up to this section.

--format yaml > backup/system-rbac.yaml
{{< /code >}}
   
5. Back up your entity resources (if desired).

>      

Reviewer: If we assume that we are taking a backup as upgrade insurance, I don't see the value in stripping namespaces.

   {{< code shell >}}
sensuctl dump entities \
--format yaml | grep -v "^\s*namespace:" > backup/inventory.yaml
{{< /code >}}

## Restore resources from backup

When you are ready to restore your backed-up resources, use [`sensuctl create`][1].

To restore everything you backed up all at once, run:

{{< code shell >}}
sensuctl create -r -f backup/
{{< /code >}}

To restore a subset of your backups (in this example, your pipeline resources), run:

{{< code shell >}}
sensuctl create -f backup/pipelines.yaml
{{< /code >}}

{{% notice note %}}

> **NOTE**: To restore `users` resources from `sensuctl dump` output, you must add a `password_hash` or `password` to your `sensuctl create` command.

Reviewer: To me this note is indicative that we should dump apikeys and users to separate files in dump instructions above, because people won't be able to restore them without modification, if at all -- in the case of API keys, they can't be created from a dump.

{{< code shell >}}
sensuctl dump handler,filter --format yaml --file my-handlers-and-filters.yaml
{{< /code >}}

After you use `sensuctl dump` to back up your Sensu resources, you can [restore][3] them later with [`sensuctl create`][1].
This page explains how to back up your resources for two common use cases: before a Sensu version upgrade and to populate new namespaces with existing resources.

## Back up before a Sensu version upgrade

You should create a backup before you [upgrade][4] to a new version of Sensu.
Here's the step-by-step process:

1. Create a backup folder.

   {{< code shell >}}
mkdir backup
{{< /code >}}
   
2. Create a namespaced backup of the entire cluster, except entities, events, and [role-based access control (RBAC)][2] resources.
   
   {{< code shell >}}
sensuctl dump all \
--omit entities,events,apikeys,users,roles,rolebindings,clusterroles,clusterrolebindings \
--format yaml > backup/config.yaml
{{< /code >}}
   
3. Export your [RBAC][2] resources, except API keys and users.
   
   {{< code shell >}}
sensuctl dump roles,rolebindings,clusterroles,clusterrolebindings

> --format yaml > backup/system-rbac.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--format yaml > backup/rbac.yaml
```

{{< /code >}}

4. Export your API keys and users resources.
   
   {{< code shell >}}
sensuctl dump apikeys,users

> --format yaml > backup/cannotrestore.yaml

Reviewer: I kind of want to write this to some other path, but I'm not sure what to suggest. Someone who follows this instruction and then uses `sensuctl create -r -f backup/` from the section below to restore the backup might experience some confusion.

Author: How about [another] note that explains they might want to save it somewhere besides `backup` b/c they can't actually restore it from there?

{{% /notice %}}

## Back up to populate new namespaces

You can create a backup copy of your existing resources with their namespaces stripped from the record.
This backup allows you to [replicate resources across namespaces][5] without manual editing.

To create a backup of your resources that you can replicate in new namespaces:

1. Create a backup folder.

   {{< code shell >}}
mkdir backup
{{< /code >}}
   
2. Back up your pipeline resources, stripping namespaces so that your resources are portable for reuse in any namespace.
   
   {{< code shell >}}
sensuctl dump assets,checks,hooks,filters,mutators,handlers,silenced,secrets/v1.Secret,secrets/v1.Provider \
--format yaml | grep -v "^\s*namespace:" > backup/pipelines.yaml
{{< /code >}}

## Restore resources from backup

When you are ready to restore your exported resources, use [`sensuctl create`][1].

To restore everything you exported all at once, run:

{{< code shell >}}
sensuctl create -r -f backup/
{{< /code >}}

To restore a subset of your exported resources (in this example, your RBAC resources), run:

{{< code shell >}}
sensuctl create -f backup/system-rbac.yaml
{{< /code >}}

{{% notice note %}}

> **NOTE**: You can't restore API keys from a `sensuctl dump` backup, although you can restore them manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE**: You can't restore API keys from a `sensuctl dump` backup, meaning API keys will need to be reissued. Use the backup as a reference for granting new API keys to replace the previous ones.
{{% /notice %}}
```

> To restore `users` resources from `sensuctl dump` output, you must add a [`password_hash`](../#generate-a-password-hash) or `password` to your `sensuctl create` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% notice note %}}
You can't restore users from a `sensuctl dump` backup, as required password attributes are omitted. You must add a [`password_hash`](../#generate-a-password-hash) or `password` to these resources before restoring them via `sensuctl create` command.
```
